.\" Access Control Lists manual pages
.\"
.\" (C) 2002 Andreas Gruenbacher, <a.gruenbacher@computer.org>
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.TH ACL_GET_PERM 3 "Linux ACL Library" "March 2002" "Access Control Lists"
.SH NAME
acl_get_perm \- test for a permission in an ACL permission set
.SH LIBRARY
Linux Access Control Lists library (libacl, \-lacl).
.SH C SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <sys/acl.h>
.sp
.B "int acl_get_perm (acl_permset_t \f2permset_d\f3, "
.B "                  acl_perm_t \f2perm\f3);"
.Op
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B acl_get_perm
function tests if the permission specified by the argument
.I perm
is contained in the ACL permission set pointed to by the argument
.IR permset_d .
.PP
Any existing descriptors that refer to
.I permset_d
continue to refer to that permission set.
.SH RETURN VALUE
If successful, the
.B acl_get_perm
function returns 1 if the permission specified by
.I perm
is contained in the ACL permission set
.IR permset_d ,
and 0 if the permission is not contained in the permission set.
Otherwise, the value -1 is returned and the global variable
.B errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
If any of the following conditions occur, the
.B acl_get_perm
function returns -1 and sets
.B errno
to the corresponding value:
.TP
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
The argument
.I permset_d
is not a valid descriptor for a permission set within an ACL entry.
.TP
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
The argument
.I perm
is not a valid
.I acl_perm_t
value.
.SH STANDARDS
This is a non-portable, Linux specific extension to the ACL manipulation
functions defined in IEEE Std 1003.1e draft 17 (\(lqPOSIX.1e\(rq, abandoned).
.SH AUTHOR
Written by
.I "Andreas Gruenbacher"
<a.gruenbacher@computer.org>.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR acl_add_perm (3),
.BR acl_delete_perm (3),
.BR acl_clear_perms (3),
.BR acl_get_permset (3),
.BR acl_set_permset (3),
.BR acl (5)
