.\" Access Control Lists manual pages
.\"
.\" (C) 2002 Andreas Gruenbacher, <a.gruenbacher@computer.org>
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.TH ACL_COPY_ENTRY 3 "Linux ACL Library" "March 2002" "Access Control Lists"
.SH NAME
acl_copy_entry \- copy an ACL entry
.SH LIBRARY
Linux Access Control Lists library (libacl, \-lacl).
.SH C SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <sys/acl.h>
.sp
.B "int acl_copy_entry (acl_entry_t \f2dest_d\f3, acl_entry_t \f2src_d\f3);"
.Op
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B acl_copy_entry
function copies the contents of the ACL entry indicated by the
.I src_d
descriptor to the existing ACL entry indicated by the
.I dest_d
descriptor.
The
.I src_d
and
.I dest_d
descriptors may refer to entries in different ACLs.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The value 0 is returned if successful; otherwise the value -1 is
returned and the global variable errno is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
If any of the following conditions occur, the
.B acl_copy_entry
function returns -1 and sets
.B errno
to the corresponding value:
.TP
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
The argument
.I src_d
or
.I dest_d
is not a valid descriptor for an ACL entry.
.TP
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
The arguments
.I src_d
and
.I dest_d
reference the same ACL entry.
.SH STANDARDS
IEEE Std 1003.1e draft 17 (\(lqPOSIX.1e\(rq, abandoned)
.SH AUTHOR
Derived from the FreeBSD manual pages written by
.IR "Robert N M Watson" ;
and adapted for Linux by
.I "Andreas Gruenbacher"
<a.gruenbacher@computer.org>.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR acl (5)
