.\" Access Control Lists manual pages
.\"
.\" (C) 2002 Andreas Gruenbacher, <a.gruenbacher@computer.org>
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.TH ACL_COPY_EXT 3 "Linux ACL Library" "March 2002" "Access Control Lists"
.SH NAME
acl_copy_ext \- copy an ACL from internal to external representation
.SH LIBRARY
Linux Access Control Lists library (libacl, \-lacl).
.SH C SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <sys/acl.h>
.sp
.B "ssize_t acl_copy_ext (void *\f2buf_p\f3, acl_t \f2acl\f3, ssize_t \f2size\f3);"
.Op
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B acl_copy_ext
function copies the ACL pointed to by
.I acl
from system-managed space to the user managed space pointed to by
.IR buf_p .
The
.I size
parameter represents the size in bytes of the buffer pointed to by
.IR buf_p .
The format of the ACL placed in the buffer pointed to by
.I buf_p
is a contiguous, persistent data item, the format of which is unspecified.
It is the responsibility of the invoker to allocate an area large enough
to hold the copied ACL. The size of the exportable, contiguous, persistent
form of the ACL may be obtained by invoking the
.B acl_size
function.
.PP
Any ACL entry descriptors that refer to an entry in the ACL referenced by
.I acl
continue to refer to those entries. Any existing ACL pointers that refer
to the ACL referenced by
.I acl
continue to refer to the ACL.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion, this function returns the number of bytes placed in the buffer pointed to by
.IR buf_p .
Otherwise, a value of (ssize_t)-1 is returned and
.B errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
If any of the following conditions occur, the
.B acl_copy_ext
function returns a value of (ssize_t)-1 and sets
.B errno
to the corresponding value:
.TP
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
The
.I size
parameter is zero or negative.
.TP
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
The argument
.I acl
is not a valid pointer to an ACL.
.TP
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
The ACL referenced by
.I acl
contains one or more improperly formed ACL entries, or for some other
reason cannot be translated into the external form of an ACL.
.TP
.SM
\%[ERANGE]
The
.I size
parameter is greater than zero but smaller than the length of the
contiguous, persistent form of the ACL.
.SH STANDARDS
IEEE Std 1003.1e draft 17 (\(lqPOSIX.1e\(rq, abandoned)
.SH AUTHOR
Derived from the FreeBSD manual pages written by
.IR "Robert N M Watson" ;
and adapted for Linux by
.I "Andreas Gruenbacher"
<a.gruenbacher@computer.org>.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR acl_copy_int (3),
.BR acl_size (3),
.BR acl 5
