.\" Access Control Lists manual pages
.\"
.\" (C) 2002 Andreas Gruenbacher, <a.gruenbacher@computer.org>
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.TH ACL_FROM_TEXT 3 "Linux ACL Library" "March 2002" "Access Control Lists"
.SH NAME
acl_to_text \- convert an ACL to text
.SH LIBRARY
Linux Access Control Lists library (libacl, \-lacl).
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <sys/acl.h>
.sp
.B "char * acl_to_text (acl_t \f2acl\f3, ssize_t *\f2len_p\f3);"
.Op
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B acl_to_text
function translates the ACL pointed to by the
.I acl
argument into a NULL terminated character string.  If the pointer
.I len_p
is not NULL,
then the function returns the length of the string (not
including the NULL terminator) in the location pointed to by
.IR len_p .
The format of the text string returned by
.B acl_to_text
is the long text form defined in
.BR acl (5).
The ACL referred to by
.I acl
is not changed.
.PP
This function allocates any memory necessary to contain the string and
returns a pointer to the string.  The caller should free any releasable
memory, when the new string is no longer required, by calling
.BR acl_free (3)
with the (void*)char returned by
.B acl_to_text
as an argument.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion, this function returns a pointer to the
long text form of the ACL.
Otherwise, a value of NULL is returned, and
.B errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
If any of the following conditions occur, the
.B acl_to_text
function returns a value of NULL and sets
.B errno
to the corresponding value:
.TP
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
The argument
.I acl
is not a valid pointer to an ACL.
.TP
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
The ACL referenced by
.I acl
contains one or more improperly formed ACL entries, or for some other
reason cannot be translated into a text form of an ACL.
.TP
.SM
\%[ENOMEM]
The character string to be returned requires more memory than is allowed
by the hardware or system-imposed memory management constraints.
.SH STANDARDS
IEEE Std 1003.1e draft 17 (\(lqPOSIX.1e\(rq, abandoned)
.SH AUTHOR
Derived from the FreeBSD manual pages written by
.IR "Robert N M Watson" ;
and adapted for Linux by
.I "Andreas Gruenbacher"
<a.gruenbacher@computer.org>.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR acl_from_text (3),
.BR acl_free (3),
.BR acl_to_any_text (3),
.BR acl (5)
