.\" Access Control Lists manual pages
.\"
.\" (C) 2002 Andreas Gruenbacher, <a.gruenbacher@computer.org>
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.TH ACL_CMP 3 "Linux ACL Library" "March 2002" "Access Control Lists"
.SH NAME
acl_cmp \- compare two ACLs
.SH LIBRARY
Linux Access Control Lists library (libacl, \-lacl).
.SH C SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <sys/acl.h>
.sp
.B "int acl_cmp (acl_t \f2acl1\f3, acl_t \f2acl2\f3);"
.Op
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B acl_cmp
function compares the ACLs pointed to by the arguments
.I acl1
and
.I acl2
for equality. The two ACLs are considered equal if for each entry in
.I acl1
there is an entry in
.I acl2
with matching tag type, qualifier, and permissions, and vice versa.
.SH RETURN VALUE
If successful, the
.B acl_cmp
function returns 0 if the two ACLs
.I acl1
and
.I acl2
are equal, and 1 if they differ. Otherwise, the value -1
is returned and the global variable
.B errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
If any of the following conditions occur, the
.B acl_cmp
function returns -1 and sets
.B errno
to the corresponding value:
.TP
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
The argument
.I acl1
is not a valid pointer to an ACL.
.TP
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
The argument
.I acl2
is not a valid pointer to an ACL.
.SH STANDARDS
This is a non-portable, Linux specific extension to the ACL manipulation
functions defined in IEEE Std 1003.1e draft 17 (\(lqPOSIX.1e\(rq, abandoned).
.SH AUTHOR
Written by
.I "Andreas Gruenbacher"
<a.gruenbacher@computer.org>.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR acl (5)
