.\" Access Control Lists manual pages
.\"
.\" (C) 2002 Andreas Gruenbacher, <a.gruenbacher@computer.org>
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.TH ACL_SIZE 3 "Linux ACL Library" "March 2002" "Access Control Lists"
.SH NAME
acl_size \- get the size of the external representation of an ACL
.SH LIBRARY
Linux Access Control Lists library (libacl, \-lacl).
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <sys/acl.h>
.sp
.B "ssize_t acl_size (acl_t \f2acl\f3);"
.Op
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B acl_size
function return the size, in bytes, of the buffer required to hold the exportable, contiguous, persistent form of the ACL pointed to by the argument
.IR acl ,
when converted by
.BR acl_copy_ext (3).
.PP
Any existing ACL entry descriptors that refer to entries in
.I acl
continue to refer to the same entries. Any existing ACL pointers that refer
to the ACL referred to by
.I acl
continue to refer to the ACL. The order of ACL entries within
.I acl
remains unchanged.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion, the
.B acl_size
function returns the size in bytes of the contiguous, persistent form of
the ACL. Otherwise, a value of (ssize_t)-1 is returned and
.B errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
If any of the following conditions occur, the
.BR acl_size (3)
function returns a value of (ssize_t)-1 and sets
.B errno
to the corresponding value:
.TP
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
The argument
.I acl
is not a valid pointer to an ACL.
.SH STANDARDS
IEEE Std 1003.1e draft 17 (\(lqPOSIX.1e\(rq, abandoned)
.SH AUTHOR
Derived from the FreeBSD manual pages written by
.IR "Robert N M Watson" ;
and adapted for Linux by
.I "Andreas Gruenbacher"
<a.gruenbacher@computer.org>.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR acl_copy_ext (3),
.BR acl (5)
