.\" Access Control Lists manual pages
.\"
.\" (C) 2002 Andreas Gruenbacher, <a.gruenbacher@computer.org>
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.TH ACL_SET_PERMSET 3 "Linux ACL Library" "March 2002" "Access Control Lists"
.SH NAME
acl_set_permset \- set the permission set in an ACL entry
.SH LIBRARY
Linux Access Control Lists library (libacl, \-lacl).
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <sys/acl.h>
.sp
.B "int acl_set_permset (acl_entry_t \f2entry_d\f3, "
.B "                     acl_permset_t \f2permset_d\f3);"
.Op
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B acl_set_permset
function sets the permission set of the ACL entry indicated by the argument
.I entry_d 
to the permissions contained in the argument
.IR permset_d .
.PP
Any ACL entry descriptors that refer to the entry containing the permission
set referred to by
.I permset_d
shall continue to refer to those entries. Any ACL entry descriptors that
refer to the entry referred to by
.I entry_d
shall continue to refer to that entry.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The value 0 is returned if successful; otherwise the value -1 is
returned and the global variable errno is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
If any of the following conditions occur, the
.B acl_set_permset
function returns -1 and sets
.B errno
to the corresponding value:
.TP
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
The argument
.I entry_d
is not a valid descriptor for an ACL entry.
.TP
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
The argument
.I permset_d
is not a valid descriptor for a permission set within an ACL entry.
.TP
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
.\" <AG>
.\" The following condition seems strange.
.\" </AG>
The argument
.I permset_d
contains values which are not valid
.B acl_permset_t
values.
.SH STANDARDS
IEEE Std 1003.1e draft 17 (\(lqPOSIX.1e\(rq, abandoned)
.SH AUTHOR
Derived from the FreeBSD manual pages written by
.IR "Robert N M Watson" ;
and adapted for Linux by
.I "Andreas Gruenbacher"
<a.gruenbacher@computer.org>.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR acl_get_perm (3),
.BR acl_add_perm (3),
.BR acl_delete_perm (3),
.BR acl_clear_perms (3),
.BR acl_get_permset (3),
.BR acl_get_qualifier (3),
.BR acl_set_qualifier (3),
.BR acl_get_tag_type (3),
.BR acl_set_tag_type (3),
.BR acl (5)
