.\" Access Control Lists manual pages
.\"
.\" (C) 2002 Andreas Gruenbacher, <a.gruenbacher@computer.org>
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.TH ACL_COPY_INT 3 "Linux ACL Library" "March 2002" "Access Control Lists"
.SH NAME
acl_copy_int \- copy an ACL from external to internal representation
.SH LIBRARY
Linux Access Control Lists library (libacl, \-lacl).
.SH C SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <sys/acl.h>
.sp
.B "acl_t acl_copy_int (const void *\f2buf_p\f3);"
.Op
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B acl_copy_int
function copies an exportable, contiguous, persistent form of an ACL, pointed to by
.IR buf_p ,
to the internal representation.
.PP
This function may cause memory to be allocated.  The caller should free any
releasable memory, when the new ACL is no longer required, by calling
.BR acl_free (3)
with the (void*)acl_t returned by
.B acl_copy_int
as an argument.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion,
the
.B acl_copy_int
function returns a pointer that references the ACL in working storage.
Otherwise, a value of (acl_t)NULL is returned, and
.B errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
If any of the following conditions occur, the
.B acl_copy_int
function returns a value of (acl_t)NULL and sets
.B errno
to the corresponding value:
.TP
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
The buffer pointed to by the
.I buf_p
argument does not contain a valid external form ACL.
.TP
.SM
\%[ENOMEM]
The ACL working storage requires more memory than is allowed by the hardware or system-imposed memory management constraints.
.SH STANDARDS
IEEE Std 1003.1e draft 17 (\(lqPOSIX.1e\(rq, abandoned)
.SH AUTHOR
Derived from the FreeBSD manual pages written by
.IR "Robert N M Watson" ;
and adapted for Linux by
.I "Andreas Gruenbacher"
<a.gruenbacher@computer.org>.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR acl_copy_ext (3),
.BR acl_free (3),
.BR acl (5)
