.\" Access Control Lists manual pages
.\"
.\" (C) 2002 Andreas Gruenbacher, <a.gruenbacher@computer.org>
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.TH ACL_DELETE_ENTRY 3 "Linux ACL Library" "March 2002" "Access Control Lists"
.SH NAME
acl_delete_entry \- delete an ACL entry
.SH LIBRARY
Linux Access Control Lists library (libacl, \-lacl).
.SH C SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <sys/acl.h>
.sp
.B "int acl_delete_entry (acl_t \f2acl\f3, acl_entry_t \f2entry_d\f3);"
.Op
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B acl_delete_entry
function removes the ACL entry indicated by the
.I entry_d
descriptor from the ACL pointed to by
.IR acl .
Any existing ACL entry descriptors that refer to entries in
.I acl
other than that referred to by
.I entry_d
continue to refer to the same entries. The argument
.I entry_d
and any other ACL entry descriptors that refer to the same ACL entry are
undefined after this function completes. Any existing ACL pointers that
refer to the ACL referred to by
.I acl
continue to refer to the ACL.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The value 0 is returned if successful; otherwise the value -1 is
returned and the global variable errno is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
If any of the following conditions occur, the
.B acl_delete_entry
function returns -1 and sets
.B errno
to the corresponding value:
.TP
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
The argument
.I acl_p
is not a valid pointer to an ACL.
.TP
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
The argument
.I entry_d
is not a valid pointer to an ACL entry.
.SH STANDARDS
IEEE Std 1003.1e draft 17 (\(lqPOSIX.1e\(rq, abandoned)
.SH AUTHOR
Derived from the FreeBSD manual pages written by
.IR "Robert N M Watson" ;
and adapted for Linux by
.I "Andreas Gruenbacher"
<a.gruenbacher@computer.org>.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR acl_copy_entry (3),
.BR acl_create_entry (3),
.BR acl_get_entry (3),
.BR acl (5)
