.\" Access Control Lists manual pages
.\"
.\" (C) 2002 Andreas Gruenbacher, <a.gruenbacher@computer.org>
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.TH ACL_GET_FD 3 "Linux ACL Library" "March 2002" "Access Control Lists"
.SH NAME
acl_get_fd \- get an ACL by file descriptor
.SH LIBRARY
Linux Access Control Lists library (libacl, \-lacl).
.SH C SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <sys/acl.h>
.sp
.B "acl_t acl_get_fd (const char *\f2fd\f3);"
.Op
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B acl_get_fd
function retrieves the access ACL associated with the file referred to by
.IR fd .
The ACL is placed into working storage and
.B acl_get_fd
returns a pointer to that storage.
.PP
In order to read an ACL from an object, a process must have read access to
the object's attributes.
.PP
This function may cause memory to be allocated.  The caller should free any
releasable memory, when the new ACL is no longer required, by calling
.BR acl_free (3)
with the (void*)acl_t returned by
.B acl_get_fd
as an argument.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion, this function shall return a pointer to the
working storage.  Otherwise, a value of (acl_t)NULL shall be returned, and
.B errno
shall be set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
If any of the following conditions occur, the
.B acl_get_fd
function returns a value of (acl_t)NULL and sets
.B errno
to the corresponding value:
.TP
.SM
\%[ENOMEM]
The ACL working storage requires more memory than is allowed by the hardware or system-imposed memory management constraints.
.TP
.SM
\%[ENOTSUP]
The file system on which the file identified by
.I fd
is located does not support ACLs, or ACLs are disabled.
.SH STANDARDS
IEEE Std 1003.1e draft 17 (\(lqPOSIX.1e\(rq, abandoned)
.SH AUTHOR
Derived from the FreeBSD manual pages written by
.IR "Robert N M Watson" ;
and adapted for Linux by
.I "Andreas Gruenbacher"
<a.gruenbacher@computer.org>.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR acl_get_file (3),
.BR acl_set_file (3),
.BR acl (5)
