.\" Access Control Lists manual pages
.\"
.\" (C) 2002 Andreas Gruenbacher, <a.gruenbacher@computer.org>
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.TH ACL_SET_FD 3 "Linux ACL Library" "March 2002" "Access Control Lists"
.SH NAME
acl_set_fd \- set an ACL by file descriptor
.SH LIBRARY
Linux Access Control Lists library (libacl, \-lacl).
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <sys/acl.h>
.sp
.B "int acl_set_fd (int \f2fd\f3, acl_t \f2acl\f3);"
.Op
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B acl_set_fd
function associates an access ACL with the file referred to by
.IR fd .
.PP
The effective user ID of the process must match the owner of the file or the process must have the CAP_FOWNER capability for the request to succeed.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The value 0 is returned if successful; otherwise the value -1 is
returned and the global variable errno is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
If any of the following conditions occur, the
.B acl_set_fd
function returns the value -1 and and sets
.B errno
to the corresponding value:
.TP
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
The argument
.I acl
does not point to a valid ACL.
.TP
.SM
\%[EINVAL]
The ACL has more entries than the file referred to by
.I fd
can obtain.
.TP
.SM
\%[ENOSPC]
The directory or file system that would contain the new ACL cannot be extended or the file system is out of file allocation resources.
.TP
.SM
\%[EPERM]
The process does not have appropriate privilege to perform the operation to set the ACL.
.TP
.SM
\%[EROFS]
This function requires modification of a file system which is currently read-only.
.TP
.SM
\%[ENOTSUP]
The file identified by
.I fd 
cannot be associated with the ACL because the file system on which the file
is located does not support this.
.SH STANDARDS
IEEE Std 1003.1e draft 17 (\(lqPOSIX.1e\(rq, abandoned)
.SH AUTHOR
Derived from the FreeBSD manual pages written by
.IR "Robert N M Watson" ;
and adapted for Linux by
.I "Andreas Gruenbacher"
<a.gruenbacher@computer.org>.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR acl_delete_def_file (3),
.BR acl_get_file (3),
.BR acl_set_file (3),
.BR acl_valid (3),
.BR acl (5)
